Request for Information on the Tech Labs Initiative for the U.S. National Science
Foundation’s Directorate for Technology, Innovation and Partnerships

The U.S. National Science Foundation seeks input from academia, nonproﬁts,
philanthropy, state and local government, venture capital, the private sector and any other
interested parties to inform the agency’s development of the NSF Tech Labs program.
Response to this Request for Information (RFI) is not required to submit a future proposal to
the Tech Labs program.

I.     Tech Labs Description

A. Summary

The U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF), through its Directorate for Technology,
Innovation and Partnerships (TIP), intends to launch the Tech Labs program: a bold,
ﬂexible, and outcomes-driven initiative designed to accelerate practical research with real-
world applications. Tech Labs will support full-time research, development and innovation
(RDI) teams focused on overcoming persistent barriers to the commercialization of
emerging technologies. These teams will beneﬁt from operational autonomy, milestone-
based funding and the ability to engage across academia, industry, national laboratories,
and nonproﬁt sectors.

B. Rationale

The Tech Labs initiative was developed in response to the urgent need for the United States
to maintain global leadership in science and technology by transforming how research is
translated into high-impact outcomes. It is designed to address systemic barriers in the
innovation ecosystem, including the limited translation of emerging technology to impact
and limited industry engagement in early-stage technology development. Tech Labs aims
to ﬁll this gap by providing the structure, resources, and ﬂexibility necessary to develop
early-stage platform technologies and use-inspired and translational RDI with the potential
to unlock entirely new sectors of the economy.

Tech Labs will reduce the time and barriers between foundational research and real-world
application by supporting teams that are ready to transform ﬁelds and move quickly from
concept to sector-wide impact. Many of the most pressing challenges in technology
translation require coordinated, interdisciplinary teams working with urgency and purpose.
These challenges often face market failures that deter private investment, despite their
potential for transformative impact. This initiative will bet on teams – not individual projects
– by funding full-time, dedicated teams which may transcend existing institutional
structures and limitations to provide technologists with the autonomy to pursue ambitious
goals.
C. Strategic Objectives

The Tech Labs program is designed to achieve the following strategic objectives. Proposing
Tech Labs teams need not satisfy all objectives, but strong Tech Labs proposals will
address the majority.

   •   Build Sector-Deﬁning Platforms: Develop novel platform technologies that can
       serve as the foundation for future innovation and economic growth across multiple
       sectors. Examples of existing high-impact platform technologies include Very Large-
       Scale Integration (VLSI), the Internet, Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR), and Light-
       Emitting Diodes (LEDs).
   •   Generate Outcomes Beyond Papers: Foster the transformation of scientiﬁc
       breakthroughs beyond traditional outputs like publications and datasets.
       Transformative outcomes may be demonstrated through the adoption of platforms
       or technologies by a variety of organizations, evidence of technology advancement
       across Technology Readiness Levels (TRLs), the emergence of a startup ecosystem
       around nascent innovations, investment interest, including from an NSF Tech
       Accelerator, or other tangible impacts within relevant application domains.
   •   De-risk Emerging Technologies: Provide the resources necessary to mature
       technologies that are not yet ready for private investment but have the potential to
       unlock new sectors or solve longstanding challenges. NSF TIP has identiﬁed a
       signiﬁcant deﬁcit of such support in the technology translation ecosystem, and the
       Tech Labs initiative presents a unique opportunity for impactful federal investment.
   •   Identify and Address Market Needs: Encourage meaningful partnerships with
       industry, philanthropy, and other stakeholders to ensure that solutions are aligned
       with market needs and positioned for adoption.
   •   Lead and Leverage Novel Types of Partnerships: Foster partnerships with external
       stakeholders, including industry, philanthropy, and nonproﬁts, to co-develop
       solutions to challenges that require vast or specialized resources. Tech Labs are
       encouraged to leverage complementary support from partners to enhance the
       scalability and widespread impact of their missions.

D. Program Design and Structure

The Tech Labs initiative will include a lightweight application process (90 days), a 9-month
planning phase, and 24-month performance phases with the intention of renewing high-
performing teams for an additional 24 months or more. For example:

   •   Team Selection (90 days): NSF issues a call for lightweight abstract proposals (5–8
       pages) from teams addressing speciﬁc topics critical to U.S. innovation and
       industry. A subset of teams is invited to present oral pitches articulating their vision,
       technical approach, and potential for impact. Teams are permitted to submit
       proposals regardless of their current size and may plan to scale their personnel
       throughout Tech Labs phases.
   •   Phase 0 (9 months): NSF and potential funding partners support teams through a
       milestone-based Other Transaction (OT) contract to further develop their challenge
       concepts, recruit experts to their teams, reﬁne milestones for Phase 1 and
       demonstrate early progress. This phase is intended to validate the feasibility and
       ambition of proposed solutions and evaluate the strength of the Tech Labs team.
       Phase 0 milestones will include proposed technical innovation targets for Phase 1,
       an Intellectual Property (IP) Management Plan, a Research Security Management
       Plan, and a Phase 1 budget, among others.
   •   Phase 1 (24 months): Phase 1 Tech Labs teams are selected following a review of
       their Tech Lab near the end of Phase 0. Teams are evaluated on technical progress
       and potential impact on U.S. innovation and industry. Teams that advance to Phase
       1 are expected to scale to approximately 10-50 members if they have not already
       reached this size.
   •   Phase 2 (24+ months): NSF intends to award high-performing teams continued
       support to scale their solutions, transition to industry, or spin off into
       complementary initiatives. Successful Tech Labs teams, or portions of them, could
       pursue market adoption of successful technologies and/or refocus on emerging
       technologies within their mission. NSF recognizes that sustained support of
       excellent teams is crucial to supporting a national innovation ecosystem and
       developing nascent market-ready solutions. Nevertheless, NSF also anticipates
       teams to transition away from NSF investment beyond Phase 2.

E. Team Structure

With the above structure, the Tech Labs program will offer sustained, multi-year support to
innovative and institutionally independent organizational structures operating outside of
existing academic, start-up, and industry constraints to ﬁll a vital gap in the innovation
ecosystem. Awards will support a dedicated, full-time team with substantial operational
independence and the ﬂexibility to adapt quickly to evolving technology landscapes. A
strong team will include leaders and experts who demonstrate a clear vision to address
their Tech Lab’s mission. A Tech Lab will have autonomy in hiring staff and is not expected
to apply with a complete team. A team’s focus and personnel may necessarily evolve over
time as milestones are achieved and strategic or operational needs change.
Before Phase 1, a Tech Labs team will be expected to operate as its own entity with an
organizational structure that provides the appropriate autonomy and ﬂexibility expected of
the Tech Labs program. During Phase 0, it is anticipated that some teams will not yet have
formed independent entities and some team members may still be operating from their
home institutions.

Teams eligible for Tech Labs Phase 0 may include a broad range of organizational
structures. These might include, but are not limited to: independent pre-formed teams;
teams from within academia or industry that are ready to scale a technology or vision
beyond their existing institutional structure(s); teams currently part of an incubator
program; recently formed leadership teams with a goal of scaling their team during Phase 0
and Phase 1; and focused research organizations with or without current external support.

Individuals and entities participating in Tech Labs must comply with the research security
policies and practices of NSF (e.g., Important Notice No. 149 and Person or Entity of
Concern Prohibition) including those in compliance with the "CHIPS and Science Act of
2022."

F. Funding Mechanism, Amounts, and Considerations

NSF intends to utilize its Other Transaction Authority to issue Other Transaction contracts
(OT contracts), allowing for greater ﬂexibility, operational autonomy, and reduced
administrative burden. Contracts will be milestone-based, with clear metrics for technical
progress, industry readiness and societal impact. Complementary support from industry or
philanthropic partners is encouraged.

Funding for Tech Labs beyond Phase 0 is expected to range from $10 million to $50 million
per team per year. Funding is expected to scale with the needs of each team. Funding will
depend on the scope and ambition of the proposed work, and NSF anticipates ﬂexibility to
scale with shifting team sizes in different Tech Lab phases. Funding levels will be
determined based on several key factors, including:

   •   Team Size and Composition: The expected number of full-time personnel and the
       breadth of expertise required to execute the proposed mission.
   •   Infrastructure and Materials: The extent to which the team requires specialized
       facilities, equipment, or materials to achieve its objectives.
   •   Strategic Growth Trajectory: Whether the team is already positioned to scale
       rapidly, potentially as a pre-formed entity, or whether a more deliberate, steady
       build-up is appropriate for the team’s mission.
Teams are encouraged to request funding that aligns with their organizational capacity and
operational readiness. Proposals should demonstrate a clear rationale for the requested
funding level, including how the team will manage and deploy resources effectively.

G. Tech Labs Topics, Missions, and Outcomes
   • Topics: Under the Tech Labs program, NSF will release a series of topic areas in
      which the U.S. must retain or regain technical dominance. Possible topic areas
      include quantum technology, artiﬁcial intelligence, critical materials,
      semiconductor manufacturing, and biotechnology.
   • Mission: Proposing teams should describe a clear challenge, gap, or bottleneck
      motivated by practical use considerations that they are uniquely suited to tackle.
      Successful teams should have a clear vision of how their deﬁned mission is
      technically challenging, economically signiﬁcant, and advantageous, and currently
      unmet by existing funding mechanisms. A proposal should justify why the approach
      espoused by the Tech Labs program – including dedicated resources for a full-time
      team of experts – may be uniquely suited to fostering high-impact breakthroughs
      while addressing the challenge, gap, or bottleneck over several years.
   • Outcomes: A Tech Lab is expected to deliver high-impact and quantiﬁable results
      aligned with its mission and scientiﬁc and technical vision. Such outcomes might
      include scaling technologies across TRLs, advancing broad platform technologies
      with implications across multiple economic sectors, or seeding new sectors of the
      U.S. economy. Proposals should describe the team’s intended outcomes and a brief
      outline of the team’s approach to attain them. Milestones deﬁned in the OTs will be
      designed to align with the proposed quantiﬁable outcomes.

H. Tech Labs Selection Criteria

Phase 0 Selection Criteria
Eligible proposing Tech Labs teams will be evaluated in accordance with the selection
criteria listed below. All criteria will be given full consideration during review and must be
addressed.

   1. Team Qualiﬁcations and Structure

           a. The extent to which the team has the technical, leadership and creative
              expertise needed to execute their mission.
           b. The extent to which the proposed legal and organizational structure is
              appropriate for the proposed work and mission; the extent to which the team
              structure reﬂects the autonomy and ﬂexibility expected of Tech Labs teams.
   2. Mission Clarity and Outcomes

          a. The extent to which the proposed mission addresses a challenge, gap, or
             bottleneck within one of the speciﬁed technical topics; the extent to which
             the technology landscape justiﬁes a dedicated, full-time team to achieve
             high-impact breakthroughs in the mission area.
          b. The extent to which the mission is aligned with the strategic objectives of the
             Tech Labs program.

          c. The extent to which the proposed activities and outcomes are well-deﬁned
             and appropriately ambitious, and there exists a clear rationale for how
             activities will achieve the mission outcomes.

Phase 1 and 2 Selection Criteria

Only teams awarded a Phase 0 Tech Labs award will be eligible for a Phase 1 award, and
only teams awarded a Phase 1 Tech Labs award will be eligible for a Phase 2 award, with
few to no exceptions. It is anticipated that some teams will change institutional
categorization and/or legal entities between Phase 0 and Phase 1 as a progression of the
Tech Labs program.

Following a review of each Tech Labs award, NSF will select a smaller or equal number of
highly qualiﬁed Tech Labs teams to be awarded Phase 1 or Phase 2 funding. Review criteria
will include:

   1. Team Qualiﬁcations and Structure

          a. The extent to which the team demonstrates the technical, leadership and
             creative expertise needed to execute their mission. Are previously identiﬁed
             gaps in the team being ﬁlled?
          b. The extent to which the proposed legal and organizational structure is
             appropriate for the proposed work and mission; the extent to which the team
             reﬂects the autonomy and ﬂexibility expected of Tech Labs teams.
          c. The extent to which the proposed funding amount aligns with the team’s
             scope, ambition, size, infrastructure and material needs, and growth
             trajectory.
   2. Mission Clarity and Outcomes

          a. The extent to which the mission is aligned with the strategic objectives of the
             Tech Labs program.
             b. The extent to which the technology landscape justiﬁes the need for a
                dedicated, full-time team to achieve high-impact breakthroughs in the
                mission area.

             c. The extent to which the proposed milestones are well-deﬁned and
                appropriately ambitious, and there exists a clear rationale for how activities
                will advance the mission outcomes; the extent to which any proposed
                updates to previous milestones are justiﬁable and indicate adaptation based
                on lessons learned.

             d. The extent to which the team has demonstrated meaningful progress during
                the prior award period.
             e. The extent to which the proposed funding amount aligns with the team’s
                scope, ambition, size, infrastructure and material needs, and growth
                trajectory.

II.      Questions
      1. Brieﬂy describe your organization, capabilities, services offered, ownership model,
         and size.
      2. What, if any, substantive comparative advantage (as compared to standard grants
         and other existing NSF programs) could the NSF Tech Labs program model provide
         in efforts to accelerate and advance U.S. competitiveness – either across various
         key technologies or within a speciﬁc technology focus area?

      3. Could your team become an NSF Tech Lab? (Y/N)

             a. If yes:

                     i. What is your vision for substantially advancing the state of practice in
                        your chosen topic of focus, and why is the Tech Labs funding
                        mechanism a superior approach to pursuing that vision?

                    ii. Describe your team’s experience, including technology translation
                        from early-stage academic research to industry/use.

                   iii. Describe the ideal management and structure of your potential Tech
                        Lab.

                   iv. Has your team engaged with nonproﬁt and philanthropic
                       organizations? (Y/N) If yes, to what end or for what purpose?

                    v. Has your team engaged with industry organizations, including venture
                       capital ﬁrms, venture studios, incubators, accelerators, startups,
                  mid-size and large organizations? (Y/N) If yes, to what end or for what
                  purpose?
      b. If no:

              i. What existing technology (translation) team(s) exist(s) that could
                 become an NSF Tech Lab?

             ii. Describe the ideal scope, experience, management, and structure of
                 a Tech Lab team.

4. What program design choices would contribute to the success of the Tech Labs
   mechanism? What program design choices would present potential barriers?

      a. Which types of teams and organizations should be considered eligible to
         apply for the NSF Tech Labs program? What restrictions on team eligibility
         should be in place to maximize speed and ensure novel impact?

      b. Is the proposed timeline for Phase 0 (9 months), Phase 1 (24 months), and
         Phase 2 (24+ months) well-calibrated to support the program’s strategic
         objective of achieving high impact, accelerated outcomes? If not, what
         adjustments should be made and why?

      c. How should IP rights be structured to support maximum success and
         impact?

      d. What degree of independence is optimal to ensure the ﬂexibility, freedom,
         and speed required for the Tech Labs initiative? How should NSF deﬁne team
         independence?

      e. How should funding be allotted to each proposed Tech Labs? What factors –
         for example: team size, team expertise, infrastructure needs, growth
         trajectory – should NSF consider to determine appropriate funding amounts
         to support successful Tech Labs teams?

5. What opportunities do you see for synergy with research and development efforts
   that are or could be funded by industry or philanthropic organizations? What
   partnership structure would allow Tech Labs to leverage federal and private support
   for maximum beneﬁt?
6. What translational problems, challenges and/or bottlenecks could be addressed
   within 3-7 years with this program design? Answers can be broad or speciﬁc.
III.   Feedback

If you have feedback, questions, areas of concern, suggestions on aspects of the NSF Tech
Labs, and/or other information you want to have considered as a part of this RFI, this is an
opportunity to provide focused commentary.

IV.    Instructions for Respondents

Please submit all responses to this RFI to TechLabs@nsf.gov with the subject line “NSF
Tech Labs RFI Response” by January 20, 2026 at 3:00 PM EST.

Any information received becomes the property of the Government and will not be returned
to the submitter. NSF may share responses with other parts of the Government or
unattributable portions of responses outside of the Government as helpful in ﬁnalizing the
design or implementation of the program.

V.     NSF TIP Tech Labs RFI Webinars

December 17, 2025, 11 AM-12 PM EST

Register here: https://nsf.zoomgov.com/webinar/register/WN_1l92UxZ1TbCunBaSwVzhwg

January 14, 2026, 2-3 PM EST

Register here: https://nsf.zoomgov.com/webinar/register/WN_rjzKZULsRzaKB8g4F1tzBQ
