                 APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION



1.   PROPOSAL FORMAT AND INSTRUCTIONS

     1.1   CONFORMING SUBMISSION

           (a)    Conforming submissions contain all requirements detailed in this ISO.
                  Submissions that fail to include required information may be deemed
                  non-conforming and may be rejected without further review. A
                  submission may be deemed non-conforming if it does not meet the
                  following solicitation requirements:

                      •   The concept is applicable to the stated solicitation and program.
                      •   The proposer meets the eligibility requirements.
                      •   Content and formatting meet requirements in the solicitation
                          instructions. The submission includes the requirement to address
                          all four Technical Areas and all three Phases in the proposal.
                      •   The proposer’s concept has not received funding or been
                          selected for award negotiations for another funding opportunity
                          (whether from ARPA-H or another government agency).

     1.2   NOTICES

           The following Notices will be provided as applicable to the Technical and
           Administrative points of contact identified in the proposal on ARPA-H’s Solution
           Submission Portal:
                  • Request for clarifying details
                         o May occur any time during the proposal evaluation process.
                         o Will not include requests for proposal changes; changes to
                             proposals will not be permitted at this stage.
                  • Notice of non-selection
                         o The proposer will be advised that its proposal submission has
                             not been selected for funding.
                  • Notice of selection
                         o The selection notice will notify the proposer that the
                             government has selected its proposal for negotiation of a
                             potential award. This notification may indicate that only a part
                             of the effort has been selected for negotiation and may
                             request a revised proposal for only those selected portions, if
                             not apparent through the delineation of proposed tasks.

     1.3   PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS



                                                                                           1
            APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


      (a)    Proposal submissions are due by the date listed in the ISO Summary
             Information Section. All proposal documents must be submitted in .pdf,
             .odx, .doc, .docx, xls, or .xlsx formats. All submissions must be written in
             English and all pages must be formatted for printing on 8-1/2 by 11-inch
             paper with 1-inch margins and sans serif font size not smaller than 11
             point. Narrow or condensed fonts should not be used. The government
             will not consider pages in excess of the page count limitations, as
             described herein. Proposals with fewer than the maximum number of
             pages will not be penalized.

      (b)    Proposers are encouraged to submit concise and concrete proposals.
             Specific examples of problems, approaches, or goals are preferred to
             qualitative generalities. Additional information not explicitly called for in
             the Technical & Management Proposal must not be submitted, but may
             be included as links in the bibliography. Any additional materials included
             in the proposal package will be considered for the reviewers’
             convenience only and not evaluated as part of the proposal.

      (c)    The following matrix is designed to help proposers with their submission:

           Proposal Section               Reference                         Page Limit
       Technical &
                                   Appendix C.1                40
       Management Proposal
       Task Description                                        Does Not Count Against Page
                                   Appendix C.2
       Document (TDD)                                          Limit
       Cost Proposal and Cost                                  Does Not Count Against Page
                                   Appendix C.3
       Proposal Workbook                                       Limit
       Admin National Policy                                   Does Not Count Against Page
                                   Appendix D
       Document                                                Limit
       Draft Other Transaction                                 Does Not Count Against Page
                                   Appendix E
       Agreement                                               Limit



(d)   Appendix E - Draft Other Transaction Agreement has been included to provide
      potential proposers an initial draft of the ARPA-H agreement for this effort. The
      proposer shall include a copy of the draft agreement with any
      redlines/comments/proposed edits as part of the proposal package. If no
      redline/comments/edits are proposed, ARPA-H will interpret that as the
      proposer’s acceptance of the draft other transaction agreement’s terms and
      conditions as-is. The redlined copy of the agreement does not count towards any
      page limitations for the proposal.


                                                                                         2
                 APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


2.   PROPOSAL EVALUATION

     2.1   PROPOSAL REVIEW PROCESS
           Submission of a solution summary is required before submission of a full
           proposal.

     2.2   HANDLING SELECTION SENSITIVE INFORMATION

           (a)   It is ARPA-H’s intent to protect all proposals as selection-sensitive
                 information and to disclose their contents only for the purpose of
                 evaluation, and only to screened personnel for authorized reasons, in
                 accordance with applicable federal laws and regulations, including FOIA.
                 Restrictive notices notwithstanding, submissions may be handled by
                 ARPA-H support contractors during the evaluation process for
                 administrative purposes and/or to assist with technical evaluation.

           (b)   ARPA-H support contractors are expressly prohibited from performing
                 ARPA-H-sponsored technical research and are bound by appropriate
                 non-disclosure agreements. Input on technical aspects of a proposal may
                 be solicited by ARPA-H from non-government consultants/experts who
                 are strictly bound by appropriate non-disclosure requirements.

           (c)   When large language models (LLMs) are used (to extract data elements,
                 summarize text, and generate text), all data will be transmitted exclusively
                 through secure API calls, with external tool calls such as web searches
                 disabled. Vendor contracts and technical controls enforce strict security
                 measures: data sent for inference is never used to train public models,
                 and all access, retention, and logging are tightly restricted and fully
                 auditable.

     2.3   EVALUTION AND AWARD DISCLAIMERS

           (a)   The government reserves the right to select for negotiation all, some, one,
                 or none of the proposals received in response to this ISO. In the event the
                 government desires to award only portions of a proposal, negotiations
                 will commence upon selection notification. The government reserves the
                 right to fund proposals with phases or options for continued work, as
                 applicable.

           (b)   The government reserves the right to request any additional necessary
                 documentation to support the negotiation and award process. The
                 government reserves the right to remove a proposal from award

                                                                                           3
            APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


             consideration should the parties fail to reach agreement on award terms,
             conditions, price, and/or if the proposer fails to provide requested
             additional information in a timely manner.

      (c)    In all cases, the government Agreements Officer (AO) will have sole
             discretion to negotiate all terms and conditions with proposers. ARPA-H
             will apply publication or other restrictions, as necessary, if it is determined
             the research resulting from the proposed effort will present a high
             likelihood of disclosing sensitive information including Personally
             Identifiable Information (PII), Protected Health Information (PHI), financial
             records, proprietary data, any information marked Sensitive, etc. Any
             award resulting from such a determination will include a requirement for
             ARPA-H concurrence before publishing any information or results on the
             effort.

2.4   REVIEW AND SELECTION PROCESS

      (a)    It is ARPA-H policy to ensure impartial, fair, transparent, and
             comprehensive evaluations of proposals based on the evaluation criteria
             listed herein and to select the source (or sources) with the proposal(s)
             determined to be the most advantageous to ARPA-H's mission objectives.
             ARPA-H will conduct a scientific and technical review of each conforming
             proposal. Proposal evaluations will be based solely on the following
             evaluation criteria.

      (b)    ARPA-H intends to review proposals as soon as possible after receipt and
             strives to respond to each proposer as soon as possible after receipt of
             their proposal(s). ARPA-H will not evaluate proposals against each other
             during the scientific technical review process; rather, ARPA-H will evaluate
             each proposal based on its own merits to determine how well it meets
             ISO criteria.

2.5   EVALUTION CRITERIA FOR PROPOSALS

      ARPA-H will conduct a scientific and technical review of each conforming
      proposal, evaluating proposals on how well the submission meets the criteria
      stated in this ISO. All proposals will be evaluated using the following evaluation
      criteria, listed in descending order of importance.

      Criterion 1: Overall Scientific and Technical Merit
      The proposed technical approach is highly innovative and technically sound with
      a well-defined path to completion. Task descriptions and associated technical

                                                                                          4
      APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


elements provided are complete and in a logical sequence with all proposed
deliverables clearly defined such that an outcome that achieves the goal is
plausible. The proposal identifies major technical risks, expected for ARPA-H
projects, and planned mitigation efforts are clearly defined and feasible. In
addition, the evaluation may take into consideration the extent to which the
proposed intellectual property (IP) rights structure and software components will
potentially impact the ability to commercialize the technology and adhere to
open-source solutions and/or standards.

Criterion 2: Proposer’s Capabilities and/or Related Experience
The proposed technical team has the expertise and experience to accomplish
the proposed tasks; the proposer’s experience in similar efforts clearly
demonstrates an ability to deliver products that meet the proposed technical
performance within the proposed budget and schedule; the proposed team
has the expertise to manage the cost and schedule and; similar efforts
completed/ongoing by the proposer in this area are fully described, including
identification of other government or commercial activities where they have led
or participated.



Criterion 3: Potential Contribution to Relevance to the ARPA-H Mission and
User Experience
Proposals will be evaluated on the potential future Research & Development-,
commercial-, and/or clinical applications of the project proposed, including
whether such applications may have the potential to address areas of currently
unmet need within biomedicine and improve health outcomes; the degree to
which the proposed project has the potential to transform biomedicine. The
interdisciplinarity of the approach will also be considered. Further, the proposed
solution contemplates the end user and reflects an understanding of the direct
needs and benefits for stakeholders, whether they are patients, providers, health
systems or payers. For example, how would this solution fit inside the clinical
workflow? Or, how will this be accessible to users in all geographies, and at an
affordable cost?

Criterion 4: Assessment of Proposed Cost/Price

All proposals will be evaluated to determine the reasonableness or value of the
estimated price/cost proposed to accomplish the technical approach. Analysis
may be performed to ensure proposed costs are realistic for the proposed
scientific and technical approach and capabilities/related experience, accurately
reflect the technical goals and objectives of the solicitation, the proposed costs
are consistent with the proposer’s technical approach and reflect a sufficient

                                                                                5
                  APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


           understanding of the costs and effort needed to successfully accomplish the
           proposed technical approach. The costs for the prime proposer and proposed
           sub-awardees should be substantiated by the details provided in the proposal
           (e.g., the type and number of labor hours proposed per task, the types and
           quantities of materials, equipment and fabrication costs, travel and any other
           applicable costs including the basis for the estimates).

           It is expected the effort will leverage all available relevant prior research to obtain
           the maximum benefit from the available funding. For efforts with a likelihood of
           commercial application, appropriate resource sharing may be a positive factor in
           the evaluation. Proposers are encouraged to incorporate creative approaches to
           cost-sharing and resource contributions that align with program objectives.
           Examples include cash, in-kind contributions, shared infrastructure, data, and IP
           access arrangements. Inclusion of such cost/resource sharing mechanisms is not
           required, but may be evaluated in the context of overall technical merit,
           reasonableness, value, and potential public benefit. Agreement Officers retain
           discretion to negotiate, adjust, or omit such provisions based on the unique
           nature, risk profile, and expected impact of the proposed effort. Proposers are
           encouraged to describe how their approach contributes to maximizing taxpayer
           value and sustaining long-term innovation outcomes.

           Proposers are encouraged to propose the best technical solution. For example,
           proposers are discouraged from proposing low-risk ideas with minimum
           uncertainty or to staff the proposed effort with junior personnel to be more
           appealing from a budget perspective. ARPA-H seeks novel solutions that are
           reflective of the level of effort and risk proposed.

3.   POLICY REQUIREMENTS AND MISCELLANEOUS OTHER INFORMATION

     3.1   CONTROLLED UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION (CUI) ON NON-FEDERAL
           INFORMATION SYSTEMS
           Information on Controlled Unclassified Information (CUI) identification, marking,
           protection, and control is incorporated herein and can be found at 32 CFR §
           2002.

     3.2   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
           The proposer must provide a good faith representation that it either owns or
           possesses the appropriate licensing rights to all intellectual property (IP) that will
           be utilized for the proposed effort. ARPA-H strongly encourages IP rights to be
           aligned with open-source rules. Further, it is desired that all software (including
           source code), software documentation, and data generated and/or developed
           under the proposed project be provided as a deliverable to the government. IP
           delivered to the government should align with the project or program goals and

                                                                                                6
              APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


      should be aligned with the level of government funding provided to generate
      and/or develop the IP.

3.3   SOFTWARE COMPONENT STANDARDS



      3.3.1   ARPA-H is committed to advancing interoperability in today’s health
              ecosystem through the adoption of open, consensus-driven standards
              and laying the foundation for emerging technologies to interoperate in
              the health ecosystem of the future through the evolution of these
              standards across all layers of the health data information technology (IT)
              eco-system. With that in mind, we anticipate that the Performer will
              develop software and data communication components that fall into
              three categories:

                 •   components that can leverage today's existing standards without
                     impeding the R&D,
                 •   components where extensions to existing standards will be
                     necessary to unlock new capabilities in an interoperable way, and
                 •   components in areas where consensus-based standards do not
                     yet exist or where use of standards would seriously limit the ability
                     to efficiently conduct R&D.

      3.3.2   Whenever such an existing standard is available that meets the scientific,
              technical, and research needs of the proposed effort, proposers should
              use the existing standard instead of creating their own. In cases where an
              existing standard provides only partial functionality, proposers should
              expand upon the existing standard, ideally in a way that does not prohibit
              or interfere with backward compatibility.

      3.3.3   Technical solutions that contain software elements with commercial-
              friendly open-source licenses (e.g., Massachusetts Institute of
              Technology, Berkley Software Distribution, or Apache 2.0) are preferred.
              If an open, consensus-based standard does not yet exist, the proposer
              should identify the aspects that lack an open standard, describe a plan to
              develop a general-purpose open data model and to prototype new open
              APIs. A strong proposal will explain how the Performer will enhance data
              interoperability (including semantic interoperability) and expand
              the availability of open, consensus-based standards and data models.

3.4   GENOMIC DATA SHARING (GDS) POLICY



                                                                                        7
             APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


      If applicable, an award resulting from this ISO will include the requirement to
      comply with the National Institutes of Health’s GDS Policy (NOT-OD-14-124).
      Information about the GDS policy can be found at:

       https://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-24-157.html.

3.5   ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (OCI)
      Through submission of a proposal, the proposer is required to identify and
      disclose all facts relevant to a potential OCI involving the proposer, its
      organization, and/or any proposed team member (proposed sub-awardee).
      Along with the OCI disclosure, the proposer must submit an OCI mitigation plan,
      which is a description of the action the proposer has taken to avoid, neutralize,
      or mitigate the stated OCI. The government may require the proposer to provide
      additional information to assist the government in evaluating the OCI mitigation
      plan. The government may reject the proposal and withdraw it from
      consideration for award if it determines the proposer failed to:

         •   fully disclose an OCI; or
         •   provide the affirmation of ARPA-H support; or
         •   reasonably provide additional information requested by the government
             to assist in evaluating the proposer’s OCI mitigation plan.

3.6   ORGANIZATIONAL AGENCY SUPPLEMENTAL OCI POLICY

      ARPA-H restricts Performers from concurrently providing professional support
      services, including Advisory and Assistance Services or similar contracted
      support services, in addition to performing as an R&D technical Performer.
      Therefore, the proposer must affirm whether it or any proposed team member
      (proposed sub-awardee, etc.) is providing professional support services to any
      ARPA-H office(s) under: (1) a current award or subaward; or (2) a past award or
      subaward that ended within one calendar year prior to the proposal’s submission
      date. If any professional support services are or were provided to any ARPA-H
      office(s), the proposal must include:

         •   The name of the ARPA-H office receiving the support
         •   The prime contract number and
         •   Identification of proposed team member (including any proposed sub-
             awardee) providing the support.

3.7   RESEARCH SECURITY DISCLOSURES




                                                                                        8
        APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


3.7.1   Conforming proposals selected for negotiation of a potential award will
        undergo a Research Security Review (RSR). The RSR involves a review of
        the proposer’s disclosures made as part of the Administrative & National
        Policy Requirements document, and a validation and comparison of those
        disclosures utilizing publicly available information and commercially
        available information tools. Section 10631 of the CHIPS and Science Act
        of 2022 prohibits federal research agencies, such as ARPA-H, from
        providing R&D awards in response to any proposal in which a covered
        individual is participating in a Malign Foreign Talent Recruitment Program
        (MFTRP). It also requires federal agencies to require recipient institutions
        to prohibit covered individuals participating in MFTRPs from working on
        projects supported by federal R&D awards.

3.7.2   In accordance with NSPM-33, to receive federal funding, research
        organizations should identify and mitigate conflicts of commitment
        (COCs) and conflicts of interest (COIs). COCs and COIs involving foreign
        countries of concern (FCOCs), including the People’s Republic of China,
        the Russian Federation, the Islamic Republic of Iran, and the Democratic
        People’s Republic of Korea (also known as North Korea), will require risk
        mitigation plans. A research organization proposing in response to this
        ISO must provide research security disclosures as described in the
        Administrative & National Policy Requirements document and the Office
        of Science and Technology Policy-identified Common Forms. The
        Common Forms are required for all senior or key personnel.

3.7.3   After a proposal is selected for negotiations of a potential award, ARPAH
        will conduct an RSR of each proposer and its senior or key personnel. The
        RSR is not part of the ARPA-H scientific merit review process. The RSR
        reviews include assessments of potential risks associated with covered
        individuals’ disclosed or undisclosed participation in MFTRPs, funding
        received from FCOCs, collaboration with FCOC entities (including
        researchers and research institutions that have been identified on various
        entity lists), foreign ownership control or influence with regard to FCOCs
        identified in proposals, and the pursuit of foreign patents stemming from
        U.S. government funded research prior to obtaining U.S. patent
        protections.

3.7.4   If ARPA-H determines the proposer failed to provide all requisite research
        security disclosures or failed to reasonably provide information requested
        by ARPA-H to assist in evaluating the proposer’s disclosures and/or
        research security mitigations, ARPA-H may eliminate the proposal from
        award consideration. ARPA-H may also eliminate the proposal from

                                                                                  9
             APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


              award consideration if ARPA-H determines the proposer did not or
              cannot properly mitigate research security-related risks.

3.8    ELECTRONIC INVOICING AND PAYMENTS

       Performers will be required to register in, and submit requests for payment
       through, the Payment Management Services (PMS) at https://pms.psc.gov.

       Requests must include the following justification (limited to 1,000 characters),
       due to the requirement for government approval in the Defend the Spend (DTS)
       System:

       The payment is justified for the IGoR program to [include the purpose of the
       project] for Milestones (s) (or TDD tasks/references) [x.x] that were accepted by
       the Program Manager on [date].

3.9    PROCUREMENT OF SYNTHETIC NUCLEIC ACIDS OR BENCHTOP
       SYNTHESIZERS
       HHS funds may only be used to procure synthetic nucleic acids or benchtop
       nucleic acid synthesis equipment from sources adhering to the Office of
       Science and Technology Policy Framework for Nucleic Acid Synthesis
       Screening.

3.10   DANGEROUS GAIN-OF-FUNCTION RESEARCH
       HHS Funds may not be used to conduct any dangerous gain-of-function
       research, per the definition in Section 8 of Executive Order (E.O.) 14292 on
       Improving the Safety and Security of Biological Research. Further, per Section 3
       of E.O. 14292, no HHS Funds may be used to fund life science research with
       foreign entities in countries of concern (e.g., China) pursuant to 42 U.S.C.
       6627(c), or in other countries where there is not adequate oversight to ensure
       that the countries are compliant with United States oversight standards and
       policies.

3.11   GOVERNMENT FURNISHED PROPERTY/EQUIPMENT/INFORMATION
       Government-furnished property/equipment/information is not expected to be
       provided to performers.

3.12   HUMAN SUBJECTS RESEARCH

       3.10.1 A proposal for funding that will involve engagement in human subjects
              research (HSR) (as defined in 45 CFR § 46) must provide documentation
              of one or more current Assurance(s) of Compliance with federal
              regulations for human subjects’ protection, including at least a
              Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Office of Human

                                                                                     10
             APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


              Research Protection Federal Wide Assurance. All HSR must be reviewed
              and approved by an Institutional Review Board (IRB), as applicable under
              45 CFR § 46 and/or 21 CFR § 56. The entity’s HSR protocol must include
              a detailed description of the research plan, study population, risks and
              benefits of study participation, recruitment and consent process, data
              collection, and data analysis. Recipients of ARPA-H funding must comply
              with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies for ARPA-H funded
              work. This includes, but is not limited to, laws, regulations, and policies
              regarding the conduct of HSR, such as the U.S. federal regulations
              protecting human subjects in research (e.g., 45 CFR § 46, 21 CFR § 50, §
              56, § 312, § 812) and any other equivalent requirements of the applicable
              jurisdiction.

       3.10.2 The informed consent document utilized in HSR funded by ARPA-H must
              comply with all applicable laws, regulations, and policies, including but
              not limited to U.S. federal regulations protecting human subjects in
              research (45 CFR § 46, and, as applicable, 21 CFR § 50). The protocol
              package submitted to the IRB must contain evidence of completion of
              appropriate HSR training by all investigators and key personnel who will
              be involved in the design or conduct of the ARPA-H funded HSR. Funding
              cannot be used toward HSR until ALL approvals are granted.

3.13   VERTEBRATE ANIMAL SUBJECTS RESEARCH

       3.11.1 All entities submitting a proposal for funding that will involve
              engagement in vertebrate animal subjects research (award recipients
              performing research, experimentation, or testing involving the use of
              animals) shall comply with the laws, regulations, and policies on animal
              acquisition, transport, care, handling, and use as outlined in:

                 •   9 CFR parts 1-4, U.S. Department of Agriculture rules that
                     implement the Animal Welfare Act of 1966, as amended, (7 U.S.C.
                     § 2131-2159); and,

                 •   the Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of
                     Laboratory Animals, which incorporates the “U.S. Government
                     Principles for the Utilization and Care of Vertebrate Animals Used
                     in Testing, Research, and Training,” and "Guide for the Care and
                     Use of Laboratory Animals" (8th Edition).”

       3.11.2 Proposers must provide documentation of a current Animal Welfare
              Assurance (AWA) on file with the Office of Laboratory Animal Welfare

                                                                                      11
                     APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


                      (OLAW). The proposer must complete and submit the Vertebrate Animal
                      Section worksheet for all proposed research anticipating Animal Subject
                      Research (ASR). All Animal Use Research must undergo review and
                      approval by the local Institutional Animal Care Use Committee (IACUC)
                      prior to incurring any costs related to the animal use research. For all
                      proposed research anticipating animal use, proposals should briefly
                      describe plans for IACUC review and approval as described in the
                      Appendix D - Administrative & National Policy Document.

                                     ADDITIONAL LINKS

42 U.S.C. § 290c(g)(1)(D)
https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=granuleid:USC-prelim-title42-
section290c&num=0&edition=prelim

ARPA-H’s public website
https://arpa-h.gov/explore-funding/open-funding-opportunities

SAM.gov
https://sam.gov/content/home

National Archives (CUI Registry)
https://www.archives.gov/cui/registry/category-list

ARPA-H’s Solution Submission Portal
https://solutions.arpa-h.gov/Ask-A-Question/

CHIPS and Science Act of 2022
https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/PLAW-117publ167/pdf/PLAW-117publ167.pdf

50 U.S.C. § 3059
https://uscode.house.gov/view.xhtml?req=(title:50%20section:3059%20edition:prelim)

Controlled Unclassified Information on Non-Federal Information Systems
      32 CFR § 2002
      https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-32/subtitle-B/chapter-XX/part-2002

Human Subjects Research (HSR)
45 CFR § 46
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-45/subtitle-A/subchapter-A/part-46

Office of Human Research Protection Federal Wide Assurance

                                                                                           12
                     APPENDIX C: PROPOSAL FORMAT, INSTRUCTIONS, AND EVALUATION


https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/index.html

21 CFR § 56
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-21/chapter-I/subchapter-A/part-56

21 CFR § 50
https://www.ecfr.gov/current/title-21/chapter-I/subchapter-A/part-50

Animal Subjects Research

       Department of Agriculture rules that implement the Animal Welfare Act of 1966
       https://www.nal.usda.gov/animal-health-and-welfare/animal-welfare-act

       7 U.S.C. § 2131-2159
       https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/USCODE-2015-title7/html/USCODE-2015-
       title7-chap54.htm

       Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Animals
       https://olaw.nih.gov/policies-laws/phs-policy.htm

U.S. Government Principles for the Utilization and Care of Vertebrate Animals
Used in Testing, Research, and Training
https://olaw.nih.gov/policies-laws/gov-principles.htm

Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals: Eighth Edition, Copyright
2011, NAS
https://olaw.nih.gov/policies-laws/guide-care-use-lab-animals

worksheet
https://olaw.nih.gov/sites/default/files/VASchecklist.pdf

Research Security Disclosures
      National Security Policy Memorandum 33
      https://www.nsf.gov/bfa/dias/policy/nspm-33-implementation-guidance

Electronic Invoicing and Payments
       Payment Management Services
       https://pms.psc.gov/




                                                                                       13
